tools/binary_size/README.md, before:

# Tools for Analyzing Chrome's Binary Size

These tools currently focus on Android. They somewhat work with Linux builds,
but not as well. As for Windows, some great tools already exist and are
documented here:

 * https://www.chromium.org/developers/windows-binary-sizes

There is also a dedicated mailing-list for binary size discussions:

 * https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/binary-size

Bugs are tracked here:

 * [Tools > BinarySize](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?q=component%3ATools>BinarySize)

[TOC]

## diagnose_bloat.py

Determine the cause of binary size bloat between two commits. Works for Android
and Linux (although Linux symbol diffs have issues, as noted below).

### How it Works

1. Builds multiple revisions using release GN args.
   * Default is to build just two revisions (before & after commit)
   * Rather than building, can fetch build artifacts and `.size` files from perf
     bots (`--cloud`)
1. Measures all outputs using `resource_size.py` and `supersize`.
1. Saves & displays a breakdown of the difference in binary sizes.

### Example Usage

``` bash
# Build and diff HEAD^ and HEAD.
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py HEAD -v

# Diff BEFORE_REV and AFTER_REV using build artifacts downloaded from perf bots.
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py AFTER_REV --reference-rev BEFORE_REV --cloud -v

# Fetch a single .size and .apk from the bots:
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py AFTER_REV --cloud --single

# Build and diff all contiguous revs in range BEFORE_REV..AFTER_REV for src/v8.
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py AFTER_REV --reference-rev BEFORE_REV --subrepo v8 --all -v

# Display detailed usage info (there are many options).
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py -h
```

## Super Size

Collect, archive, and analyze Chrome's binary size.
Supports Android and Linux (although Linux
[has issues](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=717550)).

`.size` files are archived on perf builders so that regressions can be quickly
analyzed (via `diagnose_bloat.py --cloud`).

`.size` files are archived on official builders so that symbols can be diff'ed
between milestones.

### Technical Details

#### What's in a .size File?

`.size` files are gzipped plain text files that contain:

1. A list of .so section sizes, as reported by `readelf -S`,
1. Metadata (GN args, filenames, timestamps, git revision, build id),
1. A list of symbols, including name, address, size,
  padding (caused by alignment), and associated `.o` / `.cc` files.


#### How are Symbols Collected?

1. Symbol list is Extracted from linker `.map` file.
   * Map files contain some unique pieces of information, such as
     `** merge strings` entries, and the odd unnamed symbol (which map at least
     lists a `.o` path).
1. `.o` files are mapped to `.cc` files by parsing `.ninja` files.
   * This means that `.h` files are never listed as sources. No information about
     inlined symbols is gathered.
1. Symbol aliases (when multiple symbols share an address) are collected from
   debug information via `nm elf-file`.
   * Aliases are created by identical code folding (linker optimization).
   * Aliases have the same address and size, but report their `.pss` as
      `.size / .num_aliases`.
1. Paths for shared symbols (those found in multiple `.o` files) are collected
   by running `nm` on every `.o` file.

#### What Other Processing Happens?

1. Path normalization:
   * Prefixes are removed: `out/Release/`, `gen/`, `obj/`
   * Archive names made more pathy: `foo/bar.a(baz.o)` -> `foo/bar.a/baz.o`
   * Shared symbols do not store the complete source paths. Instead, the
     common ancestor is computed and stored as the path.
      * Example: `base/{shared}/3` (the "3" means three different files contain
        the symbol)

1. Name normalization:
   * `(anonymous::)` is removed from names (and stored as a symbol flag).
   * `[clone]` suffix removed (and stored as a symbol flag).
   * `vtable for FOO` -> `Foo [vtable]`
   * Mangling done by linkers is undone (e.g. prefixing with "unlikely.")
   * Names are processed into:
     * `name`: Name without template and argument parameters
     * `template_name`: Name without argument parameters.
     * `full_name`: Name with all parameters.

1. Clustering
   * Compiler & linker optimizations can cause symbols to be broken into
     multiple parts to become candidates for inlining ("partial inlining").
   * These symbols are sometimes suffixed with "`[clone]`" (removed by
     normalization).
   * Clustering creates groups containing all pieces of a symbol (in the case
     where multiple pieces remain after inlining).
   * Clustering is done by default on `SizeInfo.symbols`. To view unclustered
     symbols, use `SizeInfo.raw_symbols`.

1. Diffing
   * Some heuristics for matching up before/after symbols.

#### Is Super Size a Generic Tool?

No. Most of the logic is would could work for any ELF executable. However, being
a generic tool is not a goal. Some examples of existing Chrome-specific logic:

 * Assumes `.ninja` build rules are available.
 * Heuristic for locating `.so` given `.apk`.
 * Roadmap includes `.pak` file analysis.

### Usage: archive

Collect size information and dump it into a `.size` file.

*** note
**Note:** Refer to
[diagnose_bloat.py](https://cs.chromium.org/search/?q=file:diagnose_bloat.py+gn_args)
for list of GN args to build a Release binary (or just use the tool with --single).
***

Example Usage:

``` bash
# Android:
ninja -C out/Release -j 1000 apks/ChromePublic.apk
tools/binary_size/supersize archive chrome.size --apk-file out/Release/apks/ChromePublic.apk -v

# Linux:
LLVM_DOWNLOAD_GOLD_PLUGIN=1 gclient runhooks  # One-time download.
ninja -C out/Release -j 1000 chrome
tools/binary_size/supersize archive chrome.size --elf-file out/Release/chrome -v
```

### Usage: html_report

Creates an interactive size breakdown (by source path) as a stand-alone html
report.

Example output: https://agrieve.github.io/chrome/

Example Usage:

``` bash
tools/binary_size/supersize html_report chrome.size --report-dir size-report -v
xdg-open size-report/index.html
```

### Usage: diff

A convenience command equivalent to: `console before.size after.size --query='Print(Diff(size_info1, size_info2))'`

Example Usage:

``` bash
tools/binary_size/supersize diff before.size after.size --all
```

### Usage: console

Starts a Python interpreter where you can run custom queries, or run pre-made
queries from canned_queries.py.

Example Usage:

```bash
# Prints size infomation and exits (does not enter interactive mode).
tools/binary_size/supersize console chrome.size --query='Print(size_info)'

# Enters a Python REPL (it will print more guidance).
tools/binary_size/supersize console chrome.size
```

Example session:

``` python
>>> ShowExamples()  # Get some inspiration.
...
>>> sorted = size_info.symbols.WhereInSection('t').Sorted()
>>> Print(sorted)  # Have a look at the largest symbols.
...
>>> sym = sorted.WhereNameMatches('TrellisQuantizeBlock')[0]
>>> Disassemble(sym)  # Time to learn assembly.
...
>>> help(canned_queries)
...
>>> Print(canned_queries.TemplatesByName(depth=-1))
```

### Roadmap

1. [Better Linux support](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=717550) (clang+lld+lto vs gcc+gold).
1. More `archive` features:
    * Find out more about 0xffffffffffffffff addresses, and why such large
      gaps exist after them. ([crbug/709050](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=709050))
    * Collect .pak file information (using .o.whitelist files)
    * Collect java symbol information
    * Collect .apk entry information
1. More `console` features:
   * CSV output (for pasting into a spreadsheet).
   * Add `SplitByName()` - Like `GroupByName()`, but recursive.
   * A canned query, that does what ShowGlobals does (as described in [Windows Binary Sizes](https://www.chromium.org/developers/windows-binary-sizes)).
   * Show symbol counts by bucket size.
     * 3 symbols < 64 bytes. 10 symbols < 128, 3 < 256, 5 < 512, 0 < 1024, 3 < 2048
1. More `html_report` features:
   * Able to render size diffs (tint negative size red).
   * Break down by other groupings (Create from result of `SplitByName()`)
   * Render as simple tree view rather than 2d boxes
1. Integrate with `resource_sizes.py` so that it tracks size of major
   components separately: chrome vs blink vs skia vs v8.
1. Add dependency graph info, perhaps just on a per-file basis.
   * No idea how to do this, but Windows can do it via `tools\win\linker_verbose_tracking.py`

Commit message:

Supersize: Create aliases for inline symbols
If a symbol was found in multiple object files, we would previously have
changed its object path to be the common ancestor of all paths it
appeared in. This is a problem because it would cause queries based on
path to not find these symbols.

On the flip side, we were creating string literal aliases for every
path a string literal appeared in. For small strings such as "", or
"\n", this would lead to an unreasonable number of aliases.

This changes supersize to first create symbols for all paths, and then
collapse groups with a large number of aliases into a single symbol with
ancestor paths.

Before this change:
.text: 48998 symbols have shared ownership (1553806 bytes)
.rodata: 541 symbols have shared ownership (285728 bytes)

After:
.text: 1586 symbols have shared ownership (48252 bytes)
.rodata: 141 symbols have shared ownership (2828 bytes)

This increases the symbol count 702115->912322 and the file size
9.67mb->10.39mb.

This increases the runtime on my machine from ~40s -> ~42s.

Bug: 776032
Change-Id: I457361762b1f241f114b52464812e6035e881538
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/726460
Commit-Queue: agrieve <agrieve@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Samuel Huang <huangs@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#510205}

tools/binary_size/README.md, after:

# Tools for Analyzing Chrome's Binary Size

These tools currently focus on Android. They somewhat work with Linux builds,
but not as well. As for Windows, some great tools already exist and are
documented here:

 * https://www.chromium.org/developers/windows-binary-sizes

There is also a dedicated mailing-list for binary size discussions:

 * https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/binary-size

Bugs are tracked here:

 * [Tools > BinarySize](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?q=component%3ATools>BinarySize)

[TOC]

## diagnose_bloat.py

Determine the cause of binary size bloat between two commits. Works for Android
and Linux (although Linux symbol diffs have issues, as noted below).

### How it Works

1. Builds multiple revisions using release GN args.
   * Default is to build just two revisions (before & after commit)
   * Rather than building, can fetch build artifacts and `.size` files from perf
     bots (`--cloud`)
1. Measures all outputs using `resource_size.py` and `supersize`.
1. Saves & displays a breakdown of the difference in binary sizes.

### Example Usage

``` bash
# Build and diff HEAD^ and HEAD.
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py HEAD -v

# Diff BEFORE_REV and AFTER_REV using build artifacts downloaded from perf bots.
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py AFTER_REV --reference-rev BEFORE_REV --cloud -v

# Fetch a single .size and .apk from the bots:
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py AFTER_REV --cloud --single

# Build and diff all contiguous revs in range BEFORE_REV..AFTER_REV for src/v8.
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py AFTER_REV --reference-rev BEFORE_REV --subrepo v8 --all -v

# Display detailed usage info (there are many options).
tools/binary_size/diagnose_bloat.py -h
```

## Super Size

Collect, archive, and analyze Chrome's binary size.
Supports Android and Linux (although Linux
[has issues](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=717550)).

`.size` files are archived on perf builders so that regressions can be quickly
analyzed (via `diagnose_bloat.py --cloud`).

`.size` files are archived on official builders so that symbols can be diff'ed
between milestones.

### Technical Details

#### What's in a .size File?

`.size` files are gzipped plain text files that contain:

1. A list of .so section sizes, as reported by `readelf -S`,
1. Metadata (GN args, filenames, timestamps, git revision, build id),
1. A list of symbols, including name, address, size,
  padding (caused by alignment), and associated `.o` / `.cc` files.

#### How are Symbols Collected?

1. Symbol list is Extracted from linker `.map` file.
   * Map files contain some unique pieces of information compared to `nm` output,
      such as `** merge strings` entries, and some unnamed symbols (which
      although unnamed, contain the `.o` path).
1. `.o` files are mapped to `.cc` files by parsing `.ninja` files.
   * This means that `.h` files are never listed as sources. No information about
     inlined symbols is gathered.
1. Symbol aliases (when multiple symbols share an address) are collected from
   debug information via `nm elf-file`.
   * Aliases are created by identical code folding (linker optimization).
   * Aliases have the same address and size, but report their `.pss` as
      `.size / .num_aliases`.
1. `** merge strings` symbols are further broken down into individual string
  literal symbols. This is done by reading string literals from `.o` files, and
  then searching for them within the `** merge strings` sections.
1. "Shared symbols" are those that are owned by multiple `.o` files. These include
  inline functions defined in `.h` files, and string literals that are de-duped
  at link-time. Shared symbols are normally represented using one symbol alias
  per path, but are sometimes collapsed into a single symbol where the path is
  set to `{shared}/$SYMBOL_COUNT`. This collapsing is done only for symbols owned
  by a large number of paths.

#### What Other Processing Happens?

1. Path normalization:
   * Prefixes are removed: `out/Release/`, `gen/`, `obj/`
   * Archive names made more pathy: `foo/bar.a(baz.o)` -> `foo/bar.a/baz.o`
   * Shared symbols do not store the complete source paths. Instead, the
     common ancestor is computed and stored as the path.
      * Example: `base/{shared}/3` (the "3" means three different files contain
        the symbol)

1. Name normalization:
   * `(anonymous::)` is removed from names (and stored as a symbol flag).
   * `[clone]` suffix removed (and stored as a symbol flag).
   * `vtable for FOO` -> `Foo [vtable]`
   * Mangling done by linkers is undone (e.g. prefixing with "unlikely.")
   * Names are processed into:
     * `name`: Name without template and argument parameters
     * `template_name`: Name without argument parameters.
     * `full_name`: Name with all parameters.

1. Clustering
   * Compiler & linker optimizations can cause symbols to be broken into
     multiple parts to become candidates for inlining ("partial inlining").
   * These symbols are sometimes suffixed with "`[clone]`" (removed by
     normalization).
   * Clustering creates groups containing all pieces of a symbol (in the case
     where multiple pieces remain after inlining).
   * Clustering is done by default on `SizeInfo.symbols`. To view unclustered
     symbols, use `SizeInfo.raw_symbols`.

1. Diffing
   * Some heuristics for matching up before/after symbols.

#### Is Super Size a Generic Tool?

No. Most of the logic is would could work for any ELF executable. However, being
a generic tool is not a goal. Some examples of existing Chrome-specific logic:

 * Assumes `.ninja` build rules are available.
 * Heuristic for locating `.so` given `.apk`.
 * Roadmap includes `.pak` file analysis.

### Usage: archive

Collect size information and dump it into a `.size` file.

*** note
**Note:** Refer to
[diagnose_bloat.py](https://cs.chromium.org/search/?q=file:diagnose_bloat.py+gn_args)
for list of GN args to build a Release binary (or just use the tool with --single).
***

Example Usage:

``` bash
# Android:
ninja -C out/Release -j 1000 apks/ChromePublic.apk
tools/binary_size/supersize archive chrome.size --apk-file out/Release/apks/ChromePublic.apk -v

# Linux:
LLVM_DOWNLOAD_GOLD_PLUGIN=1 gclient runhooks  # One-time download.
ninja -C out/Release -j 1000 chrome
tools/binary_size/supersize archive chrome.size --elf-file out/Release/chrome -v
```

### Usage: html_report

Creates an interactive size breakdown (by source path) as a stand-alone html
report.

Example output: https://agrieve.github.io/chrome/

Example Usage:

``` bash
tools/binary_size/supersize html_report chrome.size --report-dir size-report -v
xdg-open size-report/index.html
```

### Usage: diff

A convenience command equivalent to: `console before.size after.size --query='Print(Diff(size_info1, size_info2))'`

Example Usage:

``` bash
tools/binary_size/supersize diff before.size after.size --all
```

### Usage: console

Starts a Python interpreter where you can run custom queries, or run pre-made
queries from canned_queries.py.

Example Usage:

```bash
# Prints size infomation and exits (does not enter interactive mode).
tools/binary_size/supersize console chrome.size --query='Print(size_info)'

# Enters a Python REPL (it will print more guidance).
tools/binary_size/supersize console chrome.size
```

Example session:

``` python
>>> ShowExamples()  # Get some inspiration.
...
>>> sorted = size_info.symbols.WhereInSection('t').Sorted()
>>> Print(sorted)  # Have a look at the largest symbols.
...
>>> sym = sorted.WhereNameMatches('TrellisQuantizeBlock')[0]
>>> Disassemble(sym)  # Time to learn assembly.
...
>>> help(canned_queries)
...
>>> Print(canned_queries.TemplatesByName(depth=-1))
```

### Roadmap

1. [Better Linux support](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=717550) (clang+lld+lto vs gcc+gold).
1. More `archive` features:
    * Find out more about 0xffffffffffffffff addresses, and why such large
      gaps exist after them. ([crbug/709050](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=709050))
    * Collect .pak file information (using .o.whitelist files)
    * Collect java symbol information
    * Collect .apk entry information
1. More `console` features:
   * CSV output (for pasting into a spreadsheet).
   * Add `SplitByName()` - Like `GroupByName()`, but recursive.
   * A canned query, that does what ShowGlobals does (as described in [Windows Binary Sizes](https://www.chromium.org/developers/windows-binary-sizes)).
   * Show symbol counts by bucket size.
     * 3 symbols < 64 bytes. 10 symbols < 128, 3 < 256, 5 < 512, 0 < 1024, 3 < 2048
1. More `html_report` features:
   * Able to render size diffs (tint negative size red).
   * Break down by other groupings (Create from result of `SplitByName()`)
   * Render as simple tree view rather than 2d boxes
1. Integrate with `resource_sizes.py` so that it tracks size of major
   components separately: chrome vs blink vs skia vs v8.
1. Add dependency graph info, perhaps just on a per-file basis.
   * No idea how to do this, but Windows can do it via `tools\win\linker_verbose_tracking.py`
