docs/speed/benchmark_harnesses/telemetry_device_setup.md, before:

# Setting up devices for Telemetry benchmarks

[TOC]

## Install extra python dependencies

Telemetry depends on pustil version 2.6+. Make sure that you install psutil
first.

If you only use Telemetry through tools/perf/run_benchmark script,
vpython should already automatically install all the required deps for you. e.g:

```
$ tools/perf/run_benchmark --browser=system dummy_benchmark.noisy_benchmark_1
```

## Desktop benchmarks

### Mac, Windows, Linux

We support the most popular version of these OSes (Mac 10.9+, Windows7/8/10,
Linux Ubuntu). In most cases, your desktop environment should be ready to
run Telemetry benchmarks. To keep the benchmark results stable, it’s recommended
that you kill as many background processes on your desktop environment as
possible (e.g: AntiVirus,..) before running the benchmarks.

### ChromeOS

Virtual Machine: see
[cros_vm.md doc](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/docs/+/master/cros_vm.md)

Actual CrOS machine: please contact achuith@, cywang@ from CrOS teams for
advice.

## Android benchmarks

To run Telemetry Android benchmarks, you need a host machine and an Android
device attached to the host machine through USB.

**WARNING:** it’s highly recommended that you don’t use your personal Android device
for this. Some of the steps below will wipe out the phone completely.

**Host machine:** we only support Linux Ubuntu as the host.

**Devices:** we only support rooted userdebug devices of Android version K, L,
M, N and O.

### Setting up device ###
*   **Enable USB Debugging:** Go to Settings -> About Phone. Tap many times on
the Build number field. This will enable Developer options. Go to them, enable
USB debugging.
*   For Googler only: follow instructions to
    [flash your device to a userdebug build.](http://go/flash-device)
*   Although not necessary, to make your device behave similar as they do on
    bots, it is recommended to run:
    ```
    export CATAPULT=$CHROMIUM_SRC/third_party/catapult
    $CATAPULT/devil/devil/android/tools/provision_devices.py --disable-network --disable-java-debug
    ```
*   Use one of the supported [`--browser` names](https://github.com/catapult-project/catapult/blob/02ec794ca7c836a14e6d6054e4e337d1ea3acd6f/telemetry/telemetry/internal/backends/chrome/android_browser_finder.py#L30)
    on your
    [run_benchmark](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/tools/perf/run_benchmark)
    or [run_tests](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/tools/perf/run_tests)
    command.
*   Running benchmarks on WebView?
    1.  Add `--remove-system-webview` on the provision devices command above.
    2.  Make sure to [build, install, and enable](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-android-webview)
        the right WebView apk for your Android build. Also always install
        SystemWebViewShell.apk.
    3. Use `--browser=android-webview` in the `run_benchmark` command.

Commit message:

[docs/speed] Update Telemetry device setup instructions
- No need to mention installing psutil anymore. Point to .vpython file
  for dependencies.
- Simplify instructions for deaing with WebView.
- Few style nits.

Bug: 711073
Change-Id: Iebb0b2946a1e668704229f29861b2044cec92512
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/973371
Reviewed-by: Ned Nguyen <nednguyen@google.com>
Commit-Queue: Juan Antonio Navarro Pérez <perezju@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#544784}

docs/speed/benchmark_harnesses/telemetry_device_setup.md, after:

# Setting up devices for Telemetry benchmarks

[TOC]

## Install extra python dependencies

If you only use Telemetry through `tools/perf/run_benchmark` script,
`vpython` should already automatically install all the required deps for you,
e.g:

```
$ tools/perf/run_benchmark --browser=system dummy_benchmark.noisy_benchmark_1
```

Otherwise have a look at the required catapult dependencies listed in the
[.vpython](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/.vpython)
spec file.

## Desktop benchmarks

### Mac, Windows, Linux

We support the most popular version of these OSes (Mac 10.9+, Windows7/8/10,
Linux Ubuntu). In most cases, your desktop environment should be ready to
run Telemetry benchmarks. To keep the benchmark results stable, it’s recommended
that you kill as many background processes on your desktop environment as
possible (e.g: AntiVirus,..) before running the benchmarks.

### ChromeOS

Virtual Machine: see
[cros_vm.md doc](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/docs/+/master/cros_vm.md)

Actual CrOS machine: please contact achuith@, cywang@ from CrOS teams for
advice.

## Android benchmarks

To run Telemetry Android benchmarks, you need a host machine and an Android
device attached to the host machine through USB.

> **WARNING:** it’s highly recommended that you don’t use your personal Android device
for this. Some of the steps below will wipe out the phone completely.

**Host machine:** we only support Linux Ubuntu as the host.

**Devices:** we only support rooted userdebug devices of Android version K, L,
M, N and O.

### Setting up device ###
*   **Enable USB Debugging:** Go to Settings -> About Phone. Tap many times on
the Build number field. This will enable Developer options. Go to them, enable
USB debugging.
*   For Googler only: follow instructions to
    [flash your device to a userdebug build.](http://go/flash-device)
*   Although not necessary, to make your device behave similar as they do on
    bots, it is recommended to run:
    ```
    export CATAPULT=$CHROMIUM_SRC/third_party/catapult
    $CATAPULT/devil/devil/android/tools/provision_devices.py --disable-network --disable-java-debug
    ```
    If you are planning to test WebView on Android M or lower also add
    `--remove-system-webview` to this command, otherwise Telemetry will
    have trouble installing the required APKs. This should take care of
    everything, but see [build instructions for WebView](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-android-webview)
    if you run into problems.
*   Finally, use one of the supported [`--browser` types](https://github.com/catapult-project/catapult/blob/d5b0db081b74c717effa1080ca06c4f679136b73/telemetry/telemetry/internal/backends/android_browser_backend_settings.py#L150)
    on your
    [`run_benchmark`](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/tools/perf/run_benchmark)
    or [`run_tests`](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/tools/perf/run_tests)
    command.
