third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/properties/README.md, before:

# Property APIs

This directory contains implementations for CSS property APIs, as well as Utils
files containing functions commonly used by the property APIs.

[TOC]

## Overview

CSSPropertyAPI is the base class which all property implementations are derived
from. It contains all the methods that can be called on a property API, and a
default implementation for each. The .cpp implementation files for
CSSPropertyAPI are split between the generated code (CSSPropertyAPI.cpp) and the
hand written code (CSSPropertyAPIBaseCustom.cpp).

The methods that are overriden from the base class by a property API depends on
the functionality required by that property. Methods may have a working default
implementation in the base class, or may assert that this default implementation
is not reached.

A derived CSS property API (CSSPropertyAPI<Property/GroupName\>) represents a
single CSS property or a group of CSS properties that share implementation logic.
Property groups can be determined from [CSSProperties.json5](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/CSSProperties.json5).
Properties that are a part of a group define the group class name as 'api_class'
here.

Examples:

*   A single property API: the `CSSPropertyAPILineHeight` class is used only by
    the `line-height` property
*   A group of properties that share logic: the `CSSPropertyAPIImageSource`
    class is shared by the `border-image-source` and
    `-webkit-mask-box-image-source` properties.

## Special property APIs

### Shorthand properties

Shorthand properties only exist in the context of parsing and serialization.
Therefore only a subset of methods may be implemented by shorthand properties,
e.g. ParseShorthand.

Shorthand property APIs are named like CSSShorthandPropertyAPI<ShorthandProperty\>

### Descriptors

Descriptors define the characteristics of an at-rule. For example, @viewport is
an at-rule, and width is a valid descriptor for @viewport. Within the context of
@viewport, width is a shorthand comprising the min-width and max-width of the
viewport. From this example we can see that a descriptor is not the same as a CSS
property with the same name. Sometimes descriptors and CSS properties with the same
name are handled together, but that should not be taken to mean that they are the
same thing. Fixing this possible source of confusion is an open issue
crbug.com/752745.

## How to add a new property API

1.  Add a .cpp file to this directory named
    `CSSPropertyAPI<Property/GroupName>.cpp`
2.  Implement the property API in the .cpp file
    1.  Add `#include "core/css/properties/CSSPropertyAPI<Property/GroupName>.h"`
        (this will be a generated file).
    2.  Implement the required methods on the API.
3.  If logic is required by multiple property APIs you may need to create a new
    Utils file.
4.  Add the new property to `core/css/CSSProperties.json5`. Ensure that you
    include the 'api_class' flag and the 'api_methods' flag so that the API
    files are generated correctly (see
    [CSSProperties.json5](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/CSSProperties.json5)
    for more details)
5.  Add new files to BUILD files
    1.  Add the new .cpp file to
        [core/css/BUILD.gn](https://codesearch.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/BUILD.gn)
        in the `blink_core_sources` target's `sources` parameter
    2.  Add the generated .h file to
        [core/BUILD.gn](https://codesearch.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/BUILD.gn)
        in the `css_properties` target's `outputs` parameter

See [this example CL](https://codereview.chromium.org/2735093005), which
converts the existing line-height property to use the CSSPropertyAPI design.
This new line-height property API only implements the ParseSingleValue method,
using
[CSSPropertyFontUtils.cpp](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/properties/CSSPropertyFontUtils.h)
to access shared font logic.

## Status

Eventually, all logic pertaining to a single property will be found only
within its CSS property API where possible.

Currently (September 1 2017) the code base is in a transitional state and property
specific logic is still scattered around the code base. See Project Ribbon
[tracking bug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=545324) and
[design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ywjUTmnxF5FXlpUTuLpint0w4TdSsjJzdWJqmhNzlss/edit#heading=h.1ckibme4i78b)
for details of progress.

Commit message:

[Ribbon] Add an entry to the CSS README for Variable and ApplyAtRule
Bug: 545324
Change-Id: Ie5720eeef142fe5e4ef65e94707a0593b4b7a9c5
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/708316
Reviewed-by: Bugs Nash <bugsnash@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Renée Wright <rjwright@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#507825}

third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/properties/README.md, after:

# Property APIs

This directory contains implementations for CSS property APIs, as well as Utils
files containing functions commonly used by the property APIs.

[TOC]

## Overview

CSSPropertyAPI is the base class which all property implementations are derived
from. It contains all the methods that can be called on a property API, and a
default implementation for each. The .cpp implementation files for
CSSPropertyAPI are split between the generated code (CSSPropertyAPI.cpp) and the
hand written code (CSSPropertyAPIBaseCustom.cpp).

The methods that are overriden from the base class by a property API depends on
the functionality required by that property. Methods may have a working default
implementation in the base class, or may assert that this default implementation
is not reached.

A derived CSS property API (CSSPropertyAPI<Property/GroupName\>) represents a
single CSS property or a group of CSS properties that share implementation logic.
Property groups can be determined from [CSSProperties.json5](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/CSSProperties.json5).
Properties that are a part of a group define the group class name as 'api_class'
here.

Examples:

*   A single property API: the `CSSPropertyAPILineHeight` class is used only by
    the `line-height` property
*   A group of properties that share logic: the `CSSPropertyAPIImageSource`
    class is shared by the `border-image-source` and
    `-webkit-mask-box-image-source` properties.

## Special property APIs

### Shorthand properties

Shorthand properties only exist in the context of parsing and serialization.
Therefore only a subset of methods may be implemented by shorthand properties,
e.g. ParseShorthand.

Shorthand property APIs are named like CSSShorthandPropertyAPI<ShorthandProperty\>

### Descriptors

Descriptors define the characteristics of an at-rule. For example, @viewport is
an at-rule, and width is a valid descriptor for @viewport. Within the context of
@viewport, width is a shorthand comprising the min-width and max-width of the
viewport. From this example we can see that a descriptor is not the same as a CSS
property with the same name. Sometimes descriptors and CSS properties with the same
name are handled together, but that should not be taken to mean that they are the
same thing. Fixing this possible source of confusion is an open issue
crbug.com/752745.

### Variable & ApplyAtRule

Variable and the Apply at-rule are not true CSS properties, but they are treated
as such in places for convience. They do not appear in CSSProperties.json5; thus
their property API headers needed to be hand-written & manually added to the
list of api classes by make_css_property_api_base.py. Those hand-written headers
are in this directory.

## How to add a new property API

1.  Add a .cpp file to this directory named
    `CSSPropertyAPI<Property/GroupName>.cpp`
2.  Implement the property API in the .cpp file
    1.  Add `#include "core/css/properties/CSSPropertyAPI<Property/GroupName>.h"`
        (this will be a generated file).
    2.  Implement the required methods on the API.
3.  If logic is required by multiple property APIs you may need to create a new
    Utils file.
4.  Add the new property to `core/css/CSSProperties.json5`. Ensure that you
    include the 'api_class' flag and the 'api_methods' flag so that the API
    files are generated correctly (see
    [CSSProperties.json5](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/CSSProperties.json5)
    for more details)
5.  Add new files to BUILD files
    1.  Add the new .cpp file to
        [core/css/BUILD.gn](https://codesearch.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/BUILD.gn)
        in the `blink_core_sources` target's `sources` parameter
    2.  Add the generated .h file to
        [core/BUILD.gn](https://codesearch.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/BUILD.gn)
        in the `css_properties` target's `outputs` parameter

See [this example CL](https://codereview.chromium.org/2735093005), which
converts the existing line-height property to use the CSSPropertyAPI design.
This new line-height property API only implements the ParseSingleValue method,
using
[CSSPropertyFontUtils.cpp](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/core/css/properties/CSSPropertyFontUtils.h)
to access shared font logic.

## Status

Eventually, all logic pertaining to a single property will be found only
within its CSS property API where possible.

Currently (September 1 2017) the code base is in a transitional state and property
specific logic is still scattered around the code base. See Project Ribbon
[tracking bug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=545324) and
[design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ywjUTmnxF5FXlpUTuLpint0w4TdSsjJzdWJqmhNzlss/edit#heading=h.1ckibme4i78b)
for details of progress.
